.TH THIN_CHECK 8 "Thin Provisioning Tools" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
thin_check \- validate thin provisioning metadata on device or file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thin_check
.RB [ options ]
.I {device|file}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thin_check
checks thin provisioning metadata created by
the device-mapper thin provisioning target on a
.I device
or
.I file.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fP"
Suppress output messages, return only exit code.

.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Print help and exit.

.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Output version information and exit.

.IP "\fB\-\-super\-block\-only\fP"
Only check the superblock is present.

.IP "\fB\-\-skip-mappings\fP"
Skip checking of the block mappings which make up the bulk of the
metadata.

.IP "\fB\-\-ignore\-non\-fatal\-errors\fP"
.B thin_check
will only return a non-zero exit code if it finds a fatal
error.  An example of a non fatal error is an incorrect data block
reference count causing a block to be considered allocated when it in
fact isn't.  Ignoring errors for a long time is not advised, you
really should be using thin_repair to fix them.

.SH EXAMPLE
Analyses thin provisioning metadata on logical volume
/dev/vg/metadata:
.sp
.B thin_check /dev/vg/metadata

The device must not be actively used by the target when running.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B thin_check
returns an exit code of 0 for success or 1 for error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B thin_dump(8)
.B thin_repair(8)
.B thin_restore(8)
.B thin_rmap(8)
.B thin_metadata_size(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Joe Thornber <ejt@redhat.com>
.br
Heinz Mauelshagen <HeinzM@RedHat.com>
