.TH THIN_DUMP 8 "Thin Provisioning Tools" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
thin_dump \- dump thin provisioning metadata from device or file to standard output

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thin_dump
.RB [options]
.I {device|file}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thin_dump
dumps binary thin provisioning metadata (optionally from alternate block;
see option \-\-metadata-snap) created by the device-mapper
thin provisioning target on a
.I device
or
.I file
to standard output for
analysis or postprocessing in either XML or human readable format.
XML formated metadata can be fed into thin_restore (see
.BR thin_restore(8) )
in order to put it back onto a metadata
.I device
(to process by the device-mapper target) or
.I file.

.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-format\fP \fI{xml|human_readable}\fP".
Print output in XML or human readable format.

.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-repair\fP".
Repair the metadata whilst dumping it.

.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-metadata_snap\fP [block#]".
Dump metadata snapshot created by device-mapper thin provisioning target.
If block is not provided, access the default metadata snapshot created by
the thin provisioning device-mapper target, else try the one at block#.
See the thin provisioning target documentation on how to create or release
a metadata snapshot and retrieve the block number from the kernel.

.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP".
Print help and exit.

.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP".
Output version information and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Dumps the thin provisioning metadata on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output in human readable format:
.sp
.B thin_dump -f human_readable /dev/vg/metadata

Dumps the thin provisioning metadata on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output in XML format:
.sp
.B thin_dump /dev/vg/metadata

Dumps the thin provisioning metadata snapshot on logical volume /dev/vg/metadata
to standard output in human readable format (not processable by
.B thin_restore(8)
):
.sp
.B thin_dump --format human_readable --metadata-snap /dev/vg/metadata

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B thin_dump
returns an exit code of 0 for success or 1 for error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B thin_check(8)
.B thin_repair(8)
.B thin_restore(8)
.B thin_rmap(8)
.B thin_metadata_size(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Thornber <ejt@redhat.com>
.br
Heinz Mauelshagen <HeinzM@RedHat.com>
