.TH THIN_METADATA_SIZE 8 "Thin Provisioning Tools" "Red Hat, Inc." \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
thin_metadata_size \- thin provisioning metadata device/file size calculator.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thin_metadata_size
.RB [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B thin_metadata_size
calculates the size of the thin provisioning metadata based on the block size
of the thin provisioned devices, the size of the thin provisioning pool and
the maximum number of all thin prisioned devices and snapshots.
Because thin provisioning pools are holding widely variable contents, 
this tool is needed to provide sensible initial default size.

.IP "\fB\-b, \-\-block-size\fP \fIBLOCKSIZE[bskKmMgGtTpPeEzZyY]\fP"
Block size of thin provisioned devices in units of bytes, sectors, kibibytes, kilobytes, ... respectively.
Default is in sectors without a block size unit specifier.
Size/number option arguments can be followed by unit specifiers in short one character
and long form (eg. -b1m or -b1mebibytes).

.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-pool-size\fP \fIPOOLSIZE[bskKmMgGtTpPeEzZyY]\fP"
Thin provisioning pool size in units of bytes, sectors, kibibytes, kilobytes, ... respectively.
Default is in sectors without a pool size unit specifier.

.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-max-thins\fP \fI#[bskKmMgGtTpPeEzZyY]\fP"
Maximum sum of all thin provisioned devices and snapshots.
Unit identifier supported to allow for convenient entry of large quantities, eg. 1000000 = 1M.
Default is absolute quantity without a number unit specifier.

.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-unit\fP \fI{bskKmMgGtTpPeEzZyY}\fP"
Output unit specifier in units of bytes, sectors, kibibytes, kilobytes, ... respectively.
Default is in sectors without an output unit specifier.

.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-numeric-only [short|long]\fP"
Limit output to just the size number with the optional unit specifier character/string.

.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Print help and exit.

.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Output version information and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
Calculates the thin provisioning metadata device size for block size 64 kibibytes,
pool size 1 tebibytes and maximum number of thin provisioned devices and snapshots of 1000
in units of sectors with long output:
.sp
.B thin_metadata_size -b64k -s1t -m1000

Or (using the long options instead) for block size 1 gibibyte, pool size 1 petabyte and maximum number of thin provisioned devices
and snapshots of 1 million with numeric-only output in units of gigabytes:
.sp
.B thin_metadata_size --block-size=1g --pool-size=1P --max-thins=1M --unit=G --numeric-only

Same as before (1g, 1P, 1M, numeric-only) but with unit specifier character appended:
.sp
.B thin_metadata_size --block-size=1gibi --pool-size=1petabytes --max-thins=1mega --unit=G --numeric-only=short

Or with unit specifier string appended:
.sp
.B thin_metadata_size --block-size=1gibi --pool-size=1petabytes --max-thins=1mega --unit=G -nlong

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B thin_metadata_size
returns an exit code of 0 for success or 1 for error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B thin_dump(8)
.B thin_check(8)
.B thin_repair(8)
.B thin_restore(8)
.B thin_rmap(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Joe Thornber <ejt@redhat.com>
.br
Heinz Mauelshagen <HeinzM@RedHat.com>
